DOCSP-51699-continuously-updating-rag (#283)
mongodb/docs-atlas-architecture: source/solutions-library/rag-applications.txt

> Stream Processing

Reviewer: Let's use the complete names:
MongoDB Atlas
MongoDB Atlas Vector Search
MongoDB Atlas Stream Processing

`Vector Search
<https://www.mongodb.com/products/platform/atlas-vector-search>`__ capabilities,
this solution allows developers to continuously update, store, and search
embeddings within a single interface.

This solution is relevant to many industries and use cases, including:

- **Financial services:** Financial documents, legal policies, and contracts
  often use multiple languages and differ based on country regulations.
  Empowering loan officers with an AI-powered interface using relevant and fresh
  data for expediting loan creation can optimize banking workflows.

- **Healthcare and Insurance:** RAG systems that help update patient records or
  underwrite insurance policies need access to up-to-date information.

- **Retail:** Up-to-date contextual data is crucial for RAG systems to select
  the right embedding model, enabling personalized experiences for customers
  regardless of the language they use.

Reference Architectures
-----------------------

This solution uses the following components:

- **MongoDB Atlas Cluster:** Enables the flexible storage of various data types
  including text, associated metadata, and corresponding vector embeddings in

>   documents. Atlas's vector index capability directly supports efficient

Reviewer: I would suggest to update to:
 
Vector index in Atlas directly supports...

  semantic search queries within the database, which you can leverage by using

>   the `MongoDB Aggregation Framework

Reviewer: Update to this: 

which _you can use with_ the MongoDB ...

Stream Processing
<https://www.mongodb.com/products/platform/atlas-stream-processing>`__

**Partners:** `Confluent <http://confluent.io/>`__, `AWS <https://aws.amazon.com/>`__

Solution Overview
-----------------

Providing AI models with up-to-date data is essential to delivering a

> differentiated experience. Retrieval-augmented generation (`RAG

Author: How is:

Providing models with up-to-date data is essential for delivering a differentiated experience that uses relevant context to offer recommendations beyond a one-size-fits all AI approach.

?

`Vector Search
<https://www.mongodb.com/products/platform/atlas-vector-search>`__ capabilities,
this solution addresses this issue of continuously updating and routing vector
embeddings in a RAG system. With this solution, developers can continuously
update, store, and search embeddings within a single interface.

This solution is relevant to many industries and use cases, including:

- **Financial services:** Financial documents, legal policies, and contracts
  often use multiple languages and differ based on country regulations.
  Empowering loan officers with an AI-powered interface using relevant and fresh
  data for expediting loan creation can optimize banking workflows.

- **Healthcare and Insurance:** From constantly updating patient records to 
  AI-powered underwriting of insurance policies, it’s important that any RAG 
  system that optimizes these processes has access to the latest information.

- **Retail:** Personalizing retail experiences for customers is critical.
  However, consider the many languages that shoppers might use and product
  descriptions that have to match. Routing up-to-date, contextual data to the

>   most accurate embedding model can improve these experiences.

Author: What about:

: Up-to-date contextual data is crucial for RAG systems to select the right embedding model, enabling personalized experiences for customers regardless of the language they use.

>   most accurate embedding model can improve these experiences.

Reviewer 2: perfect!

Reference Architectures
-----------------------

- **MongoDB Atlas Cluster:** Enables the flexible storage of various data types
  including text, associated metadata, and corresponding vector embeddings in
  documents. Atlas's vector index capability directly supports efficient
  semantic search queries within the database, which can be leveraged through
  the `MongoDB Aggregation Framework
  <https://www.mongodb.com/basics/aggregation>`__.

> - **Atlas Stream Processing:** Subscribes to the event streams generated by

Reviewer 2: since this paragraph references the Kafka cluster, I might suggest switching the two

Data Model Approach
-------------------

In the demo solution, the data model is a collection of documents that
encapsulate all relevant information about a song. MongoDB's document data model

> allows you to store diverse data types alongside their embeddings, allowing for

Reviewer: update to this (to avoid using two times allow in the sentence):

_document data model stores_ diverse data types ...

> easy and fast retrieval. 

Reviewer: This is a suggestion: 

easy and fast _data_ retrieval

The `sample data
<https://github.com/dsdlt/mongodb-scalable-document-embeddings/tree/main/dataset>`__
has two datasets available for import: ``archive_lyrics_small1`` and
``archive_lyrics_small2``. The documents in these datasets have the following
structure:

.. code-block:: javascript
   :copyable: true
   :emphasize-lines: 9-10

   {
      "title": "Hurricane",
      "artist": "Bob Dylan",
      "year": 1976,
      "lyrics": "...",
      "language": "en",
      "genre": "rock",
      "duration": 61,
      "lyrics_embeddings_en": [...],
      "tags": ["man", "story", "night"]   // only in archive_lyrics_small1
   }

In this solution, Atlas Stream Processing uses the following data fields for the
output topic:

- ``lyrics_embeddings_en``/``lyrics_embeddings_es``: Language-specific lyrics
  embedding vector

- ``tags``: Only in the ``archive_lyrics_small1`` dataset, lists
  frequently-occurring words in the lyrics

Build the Solution
------------------

The `GitHub repository
<https://github.com/dsdlt/mongodb-scalable-document-embeddings>`__ contains
detailed instructions on how to build the solution to update your embeddings

> asynchronously and at scale by leveraging MongoDB Atlas. 

Reviewer: Update this paragraph to this:

The GitHub repository contains detailed instructions for replicating this solution, allowing you to update your embeddings asynchronously and at scale with MongoDB Atlas.

The ``README`` guides you through the following steps:

.. procedure::
   :style: normal

   .. step:: Set up the Environment

      Clone the repository, set up a virtual environment, and install necessary dependencies.

   .. step:: Load the Dataset
      
      .. important:: 

         If you don't already have an Atlas account, :ref:`join now
         <atlas-getting-started>` and :ref:`create a cluster
         <deploy-atlas-m0-cluster>`.

      Use the `provided script
      <https://github.com/dsdlt/mongodb-scalable-document-embeddings/blob/main/dataset/data_load.sh>`__
      to load the data with :ref:`<mongoimport>`.

   .. step:: Configure a Kafka Cluster in Confluent

      Follow the instructions in the `Confluent documentation
      <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/clusters/create-cluster.html#create-ak-clusters>`__
      to create a Kafka Cluster.

>       .. _copy-bootstrap-URL:

Reviewer 2: can you preface this ref with `is` just so it includes the product?
```suggestion
      .. _is-copy-bootstrap-URL:
```

Data Model Approach
-------------------

> In the demo solution, the data model is a collection of documents that
> encapsulate all relevant information about a song. This approach leverages the
> flexibility of the document data model to store diverse data types alongside
> their embeddings, allowing for easy and fast retrieval. 

Reviewer 2: Suggestion for reduced marketing-speak
```suggestion
In the demo solution, the data model is a collection of documents that
encapsulate all relevant information about a song. MongoDB's document data
model allows you to store diverse data types alongside their embeddings, allowing
for easy and fast retrieval.
```

The `sample data
<https://github.com/dsdlt/mongodb-scalable-document-embeddings/tree/main/dataset>`__
has two datasets available for import: ``archive_lyrics_small1`` and
``archive_lyrics_small2``. The documents in these datasets have the following
structure:

.. code-block:: javascript
   :copyable: true
   :emphasize-lines: 9-10

   {
      "title": "Hurricane",
      "artist": "Bob Dylan",
      "year": 1976,
      "lyrics": "...",
      "language": "en",
      "genre": "rock",
      "duration": 61,
      "lyrics_embeddings_en": [...],
      "tags": ["man", "story", "night"]   // only in archive_lyrics_small1
   }

> The relevant data fields are:

Reviewer 2: I like this addition which spells things out for the user, but I'm curious - why are these more relevant than the other fields?

Author: According to the data model 
<img width="3173" height="823" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/ea9d5a35-77fd-4270-b99c-3e822a25e52d" />
These two data fields are what is actually used by Atlas Stream Processing in this solution...

Maybe instead of "relevant data fields" I say:

```
The data fields used by Atlas Stream Processing are:
...
```

Let me know what you think of this!

Reviewer 2: awesome, thanks so much for the context! cool to see your understanding of this article. And yes, I think that sounds like a good change, thank you :)

- ``lyrics_embeddings_en``/``lyrics_embeddings_es``: Language-specific lyrics
  embedding vector

> - ``tags``: Only in the ``archive_lyrics_small1`` dataset, lists frequently
>   occurring words in the lyrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- ``tags``: Only in the ``archive_lyrics_small1`` dataset, lists frequently-occuring
  words in the lyrics
```

> Building the Solution
> ---------------------

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Build the Solution
------------------
```

The `GitHub repository
<https://github.com/dsdlt/mongodb-scalable-document-embeddings>`__ contains
detailed instructions on how to build the solution to update your embeddings

> asynchronously and at scale, leveraging MongoDB Atlas. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
asynchronously and at scale by leveraging MongoDB Atlas. 
```

      <https://github.com/dsdlt/mongodb-scalable-document-embeddings/blob/main/dataset/data_load.sh>`__
      to load the data with :ref:`<mongoimport>`.

   .. step:: Configure a Kafka Cluster in Confluent

      Follow the instructions in the `Confluent documentation
      <https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/clusters/create-cluster.html#create-ak-clusters>`__
      to create a Kafka Cluster.

      .. _copy-bootstrap-URL:
      
      Copy your bootstrap URL from the ``Cluster Settings`` tab on Confluent and
      use the Kafka REST API to create an API key to connect to your cluster.

      Create the topics ``SpanishInputTopic``, ``EnglishInputTopic``, and
      ``OutputTopic`` in the ``Topics`` tab on Confluent.

   .. step:: Configure the Stream Processing Connection Registry

      Use the :ref:`Confluent bootstrap URL <copy-bootstrap-URL>` in the
      connection registry to configure a new connection between the :ref:`Atlas
      Stream Processing Instance <atlas-sp-tutorial>` and the Kafka Cluster.

      Connect the Atlas Stream Processing Instance to the Atlas cluster.

   .. step:: Configure Atlas Stream Processing

      Copy your `connection string

>       <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/atlas-stream-processing/tutorial/#get-the-stream-processing-instance-connection-string.>`__

Reviewer 2: Suggestion: replace with ref

Author: I want to go to exactly the step where they are told to get the connection string... right now no ref exists there. How can/should I move this PR to the monorepo so that I can update the corresponding page with a ref link? I had a convo with Jeff about this and he let me know that the :ref: pulls from the manual version if not in production yet...

Reviewer 2: I see, that makes sense. i think it's fine to leave as is, since the overhead would be a lot - if anything we can drop a follow-up ticket.

Author: sounds good!

      for connecting to the Stream Processing Instance.

      Use the :ref:`MongoDB Shell (mongosh) <mdb-shell-overview>` to configure
      the pipelines and connections in the Stream Processing Instance.

   .. step:: Launch the Processor Scripts

      Execute the metadata service to subscribe to the input topics, create the
      tags and embeddings for the corresponding language according to the
      information received in the event, and write the event to the output
      topic.

   .. step:: Create an Atlas Vector Search Index

      .. note::

         Visit the `Atlas Vector Search Quick Start guide

>          <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/atlas-vector-search/tutorials/vector-search-quick-start/?tck=ai_as_web>`__

Reviewer 2: Replace with ref

>          <https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/atlas-vector-search/tutorials/vector-search-quick-start/?tck=ai_as_web>`__

Reviewer 2: or, i think you can actually delete this since it's more just marketing stuff

      script to run semantic queries using Atlas Vector Search in a chat
      interface.

Key Learnings
-------------

- **Maintain embedding relevance:** Regularly update data embeddings to ensure
  your semantic searches remain accurate.
  
- **Optimize language-model pairing:** Ensure that your LLM closely aligns with
  the language of your data to enhance the relevance and precision of your
  search results.

- **Embrace flexible embeddings:** MongoDB's flexible data model allows you to store
  embeddings directly alongside your data, regardless of their length or the
  model used to generate them.

- **Choose the right similarity function:** The effectiveness of your semantic
  searches depends on the chosen similarity function. Tailor your selection to 
  your specific use case.

- **Generate asynchronous embeddings:** Create embeddings asynchronously to
  maintain your application performance and scale generation functions
  horizontally.

Learn More
----------

- :ref:`arch-center-is-claim-management`

- :ref:`arch-center-is-rag-chatbot`

- :ref:`arch-center-is-fireworks-rag`

> Author

Reviewer: Before merging, authors goes first and then Learn More.

> Author

Reviewer: Change header to Authors

            ]
         }

   .. step:: Search and Analyze Large-Scale Documents using Vector Search

      Use the provided `query_client.py
      <https://github.com/dsdlt/mongodb-scalable-document-embeddings/blob/main/client/query_client.py>`__
      script to run semantic queries using Atlas Vector Search in a chat
      interface.

Key Learnings
-------------

- **Maintain embedding relevance:** Regularly update data embeddings to ensure
  your semantic searches remain accurate.
  
- **Optimize language-model pairing:** Ensure that your LLM closely aligns with
  the language of your data to enhance the relevance and precision of your
  search results.

- **Embrace flexible embeddings:** MongoDB's flexible data model allows you to store
  embeddings directly alongside your data, regardless of their length or the
  model used to generate them.

- **Choose the right similarity function:** The effectiveness of your semantic
  searches depends on the chosen similarity function. Tailor your selection to 
  your specific use case.

> Learn More

Reviewer 2: sorry if i was unclear - we can probably remove the **entire** "Learn More" section since the products are all mentioned at the top of the page.

Author: gottt it. Will do!

  need for rigid schema definitions. This flexibility allows you to store
  embeddings directly alongside your data, regardless of their length or the 
- **Maintain embedding relevance:** Regularly update data embeddings to ensure
  your semantic searches remain accurate.
  
- **Optimize language-model pairing:** Ensure that your LLM closely aligns with
  the language of your data to enhance the relevance and precision of your
  search results.

- **Embrace flexible embeddings:** MongoDB's flexible data model allows you to store
  embeddings directly alongside your data, regardless of their length or the
  model used to generate them.

- **Choose the right similarity function:** The effectiveness of your semantic
  searches depends on the chosen similarity function. Tailor your selection to 
  your specific use case.
- **Asynchronous embedding generation:** Generating embeddings can be
  computationally expensive. Consider running this task asynchronously to avoid
  impacting your application's performance. Leverage the cloud's elasticity by
  horizontally scaling the functions responsible for embedding generation to 

>   handle bursts in workload.

Reviewer: Why did we remove the last point? If it's relevant and it make sense, we can include this information as follows, what do you think? 

**Generate asynchronous embeddings:** Create embeddings asynchronously to maintain your application performance and scale generation functions horizontally.

Author: See [this comment](https://github.com/mongodb/docs-atlas-architecture/pull/283#discussion_r2251728356) on why I removed to begin with. However, I think this re-write is great and makes sense with the rest of the articles content!

> ------

Reviewer: Let's add a _Learn More_ section at the end. 

My proposal is adding the following assets:

Learn More
----------

- :ref:`arch-center-is-claim-management`

- :ref:`arch-center-is-rag-chatbot`

- :ref:`arch-center-is-fireworks-rag`

            ]
         }

   .. step:: Search and Analyze Large-Scale Documents using Vector Search

      Use the provided `query_client.py
      <https://github.com/dsdlt/mongodb-scalable-document-embeddings/blob/main/client/query_client.py>`__
      script to run semantic queries using Atlas Vector Search in a chat
      interface.

Key Learnings
-------------

> - **Maintain embedding relevancy:** Regularly update data embeddings to ensure

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Maintain embedding relevance:** Regularly update data embeddings to ensure
```

      queries. You can find the script in the repository under the client 
      folder.
      Use the provided `query_client.py
      <https://github.com/dsdlt/mongodb-scalable-document-embeddings/blob/main/client/query_client.py>`__
      script to run semantic queries using Atlas Vector Search in a chat
      interface.

Key Learnings
-------------

- **Maintain embedding relevancy:** Regularly update data embeddings to ensure
  your semantic searches remain accurate, especially if your documents change 
  frequently.
- **Optimize language-model pairing:** To maximize semantic search accuracy,
  ensure your large language model (LLM) closely aligns with the language of
  your data to significantly enhance the relevance and precision of your search results.
- **Embrace flexible embeddings:** MongoDB's flexible data model eliminates the
  need for rigid schema definitions. This flexibility allows you to store

>   embeddings directly alongside your data, regardless of their length or the 

Reviewer 2: nice job condensing these!

> - **Optimize language-model pairing:** Ensure your LLM closely aligns with the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Optimize language-model pairing:** Ensure that your LLM closely aligns with the
```

  your semantic searches remain accurate.
  
- **Optimize language-model pairing:** Ensure your LLM closely aligns with the
  language of your data to enhance the relevance and precision of your search
  results.

- **Embrace flexible embeddings:** MongoDB's flexible data model allows you to store
  embeddings directly alongside your data, regardless of their length or the
  model used to generate them.

- **Choose the right similarity function:** The effectiveness of your semantic
  searches depends on the chosen similarity function. Tailor your selection to 
  your specific use case.
- **Asynchronous embedding generation:** Generating embeddings can be
  computationally expensive. Consider running this task asynchronously to avoid
  impacting your application's performance. Leverage the cloud's elasticity by
  horizontally scaling the functions responsible for embedding generation to 

>   handle bursts in workload.

Reviewer 2: curious why this was deleted? I think we'd probably want to keep and rewrite it

Reviewer 2: no, deletion sounds good with the extra context! thanks

Partner Technologies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- `Confluent Cloud <https://www.confluent.io/confluent-cloud/>`__

> - `Amazon EC2 <https://aws.amazon.com/pm/ec2/>`__

Reviewer 2: Since these technologies are already mentioned at the top of the page, I think we can delete the entire "Learn more" section
